---
layout: post 
title: Quotes 
categories: happiness
---

# Religion 

## Envy 

> For from within, out of the heart of men, proceed the evil thoughts, fornications, thefts, murders, adulteries, deeds of coveting and wickedness, as well as deceit, sensuality, envy, slander, pride and foolishness.
> -- **Mark 7:21-22**

Jealousy is illogical; why torture yourself more?  Why compare only on the negatives?  Capitalize on all the things that **you have going for you**!

> Surely resentment destroys the fool, and jealousy kills the simple.
> -- **Job 5:2** 

When you see someone rewarded for doing wrong, do not envy them! 

> Fret not yourself because of evildoers; be not envious of wrongdoers! For they will soon fade like the grass and wither like the green herb. Trust in the LORD, and do good; dwell in the land and befriend faithfulness
> -- **Psalm 37:1-3**

## Case for Christ 




# Influence 

Show real interest in others.

> The royal road to a person's heart is what he or she treasures most
> -- **Theodore Roosevelt** 

Make people feel important.

> The unvarnished truth is that virtually everyone you meet feels superior to you in some way 
> -- **Carnegie** 

To change someone's mind, you must make them think you are in some manner confirming their prior beliefs. 

> A man convinced against his will is of the same opinion still 
> -- **Samuel Butler** 


# Book of Joe 

Always remember that, Luke, you're an idiot.  Don't let pride get you.  

> Carelessly discarding the second chance afforded me by the fates required such a potent mixture of arrogance and stupidity that it had to have been cultivated, because I’m fairly certain I wasn’t always such a complete asshole.



# Business

> The markets can remain irrational longer than you can remain solvent 
> -- **Keynes**

## Venture Capital

Venture capital loses when it doesn't see the winners.

> But failing to invest in a winner means that you forfeit all the asymmetric upside that comes along with that investment.
> -- **Secrets of Sand Hill**  

# Funny Moment

[A-Train cancer moment](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=l5czdDuQ5Kw)

[Searching for missing teen, gossip](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XUT8ec24anM&feature=youtu.be)

[Glice](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bAq1V6WAE8M&feature=youtu.be)

# Happiness 


> Success is getting what you want. Happiness is wanting what you get
> -- **Warren Buffett**